# FullPart: Generating each 3D Part at Full Resolution

- **arXiv**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.26140
- **alphaXiv**: https://www.alphaxiv.org/abs/2510.26140
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.26140.pdf
- **HuggingFace Papers**: https://huggingface.co/papers/2510.26140
- **Tags**:#3d generation #implicit-explicit representation #partverse-xl
- **Added**: 2026-01-02

---

## One-liner
Part-based 3D generation holds great potential for various applications.

---

## Why I care
- なぜこの論文を読んだか

---

## Key Ideas
- Previous part generators that represent parts using implicit vector-set tokens often suffer from insufficient geometric details.
- Another line of work adopts an explicit voxel representation but shares a global voxel grid among all parts; this often causes small parts to occupy too few voxels, leading to degraded quality.
- In this paper, we propose FullPart, a novel framework that combines both implicit and explicit paradigms.
- Instead of sharing a global low-resolution space, each part in our method - even small ones - is generated at full resolution, enabling the synthesis of intricate details.

---

## Notes
Part-based 3D generation holds great potential for various applications. Previous part generators that represent parts using implicit vector-set tokens often suffer from insufficient geometric details. Another line of work adopts an explicit voxel representation but shares a global voxel grid among all parts; this often causes small parts to occupy too few voxels, leading to degraded quality. In this paper, we propose FullPart, a novel framework that combines both implicit and explicit paradigms. It first derives the bounding box layout through an implicit box vector-set diffusion process, a task that implicit diffusion handles effectively since box tokens contain little geometric detail. Then, it generates detailed parts, each within its own fixed full-resolution voxel grid. Instead of sharing a global low-resolution space, each part in our method - even small ones - is generated at full resolution, enabling the synthesis of intricate details. We further introduce a center-point encoding strategy to address the misalignment issue when exchanging information between parts of different actual sizes, thereby maintaining global coherence. Moreover, to tackle the scarcity of reliable part data, we present PartVerse-XL, the largest human-annotated 3D part dataset to date with 40K objects and 320K parts. Extensive experiments demonstrate that FullPart achieves state-of-the-art results in 3D part generation. We will release all code, data, and model to benefit future research in 3D part generation.

---

## alphaXiv discussion memo
- 気になったコメント
- 自分の質問
