# Relational Visual Similarity

- **arXiv**: https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.07833
- **alphaXiv**: https://www.alphaxiv.org/abs/2512.07833
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2512.07833.pdf
- **HuggingFace Papers**: https://huggingface.co/papers/2512.07833
- **Tags**:#relational similarity #visual computing #vision-language model
- **Added**: 2026-01-02

---

## One-liner
Humans do not just see attribute similarity -- we also see relational similarity.

---

## Why I care
- なぜこの論文を読んだか

---

## Key Ideas
- How can we bring images with the same relational logic closer together in representation space?
- Our study shows that while relational similarity has a lot of real-world applications, existing image similarity models fail to capture it -- revealing a critical gap in visual computing.

---

## Notes
Humans do not just see attribute similarity -- we also see relational similarity. An apple is like a peach because both are reddish fruit, but the Earth is also like a peach: its crust, mantle, and core correspond to the peach's skin, flesh, and pit. This ability to perceive and recognize relational similarity, is arguable by cognitive scientist to be what distinguishes humans from other species. Yet, all widely used visual similarity metrics today (e.g., LPIPS, CLIP, DINO) focus solely on perceptual attribute similarity and fail to capture the rich, often surprising relational similarities that humans perceive. How can we go beyond the visible content of an image to capture its relational properties? How can we bring images with the same relational logic closer together in representation space? To answer these questions, we first formulate relational image similarity as a measurable problem: two images are relationally similar when their internal relations or functions among visual elements correspond, even if their visual attributes differ. We then curate 114k image-caption dataset in which the captions are anonymized -- describing the underlying relational logic of the scene rather than its surface content. Using this dataset, we finetune a Vision-Language model to measure the relational similarity between images. This model serves as the first step toward connecting images by their underlying relational structure rather than their visible appearance. Our study shows that while relational similarity has a lot of real-world applications, existing image similarity models fail to capture it -- revealing a critical gap in visual computing.

---

## alphaXiv discussion memo
- 気になったコメント
- 自分の質問
